---
layout: post
title:  "Running is better than jogging!"
date:   2022-11-23 18:00:30 +0100
tags:   sport
---

What's the difference?  Well, jogging is basically slower running, with less intensity and more leisure.

Both have the following benefits to the body when it comes to aerobic exercise (meaning exercise with oxygen):

* Increase blood flow to the muscles and improve cardiovascular health
* Convert more fat and carbs to fuel
* Improve body aerobic capacity (bodily oxygen efficiency) and improve cardiovascular fitness
* Keep body stress level low.

The extra intensity and load associated with running bring additional benefits.  One [study](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2803745/) concludes:

> Exercise intensity is inversely associated with the prevalence of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes independent of exercise volume and cardiorespiratory fitness (10-km performance), suggesting that the more vigorous the exercise, the healthier the health benefits.

Then there is the anaerobic (without oxygen) effect associated with intensive running, i.e. when you run fast in shorter distances.  The benefits of anaerobic exercise:

* Increases bone strength and density
* Increases lactic threshold which reduces the experience of fatigue
* Boosts metabolism as it builds and maintains lean muscle
* Fights depression
* Protects joints with improved muscle strength and muscle mass
* Boosts energy with increased ability to store glycogen

So let's put more efforts in intensive running.  But don't forget to do warmups before running.

## Cheers!  Santé!  Prost!